>MTBLS5665
Liver cirrhosis is one of the leading causes of decreased life expectancy worldwide. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of liver cirrhosis remain unclear. In this study, we performed a comprehensive analysis using transcriptome and metabolome sequencing to explore the genes, pathways, and interactions associated with liver cirrhosis. We performed transcriptome and metabolome sequencing of blood samples from patients with cirrhosis and healthy controls (1:1 matched for sex and age). For transcriptome analysis, we screened for differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNAs, analyzed mRNAs to identify possible core genes and pathways, and performed co-analysis of miRNA and mRNA sequencing results. And we validated differentially expressed microRNA (miRNA) and mRNAs using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. In terms of the metabolome, we screened five pathways that were substantially enriched in the differential metabolites. Next, we identified the metabolites with the most pronounced differences among these five metabolic pathways. We performed receiver operating characteristic curve analysis of these five metabolites to determine their diagnostic efficacy for cirrhosis. Finally, we explored possible links between the transcriptome and metabolome. Using a systems biology framework, We identified miRNAs and mRNAs that were differentially expressed in the blood of cirrhotic patients and healthy controls. And explored associated pathways as well as disease-specific networks. Additionally, We identified possible common pathways in the transcriptome and metabolome that can reveal coherent changes in cirrhosis from the transcriptional level to the metabolic level, which can be further studied from multiple perspectives.

>MTBLS7424
S-Sulfocysteine (SSC), a bioavailable L-cysteine derivative (Cys), is known to be taken up and metabolized in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells used to produce novel therapeutic biological entities. To gain a deeper mechanistic insight into the SSC biological activity and metabolization, a multi-omics study was performed on industrially relevant CHO-K1 GS cells throughout a fed-batch process, including metabolomic and proteomic profiling combined with multivariate data and pathway analyses. Multi-layered data and enzymatical assays revealed an intracellular SSC/glutathione mixed disulfide formation and glutaredoxin-mediated reduction, releasing Cys and sulfur species. Increased Cys availability was directed towards glutathione and taurine synthesis, while other Cys catabolic pathways were likewise affected, indicating that cells strive to maintain Cys homeostasis and cellular functions.

>MTBLS10453
Background: After spinal cord injury (SCI), lipid metabolism dysregulation at the lesion site exacerbates secondary damage. The transcription factor pu.1 has been implicated as a negative regulator of multiple lipid metabolism-related genes and pathways. However, its role in post-SCI lipid metabolism remains unclear. </p><p>Methods: We employed a mouse model of complete T10 crush SCI. Non-targeted metabolomics and bioinformatics analysis were utilized to investigate lipid metabolism at the lesion site after SCI. Polarized light imaging was used to evaluate the presence of cholesterol crystals. DB1976, a specific inhibitor of pu.1, was administered to examine its impact on local lipid metabolism after SCI. Immunofluorescence staining was performed to assess pu.1 expression and distribution, and to evaluate lipid droplet formation, astrocytic/fibrotic scar development, inflammatory cell infiltration and tight junctions within the vasculature. </p><p>Results: Non-targeted metabolomics and bioinformatics analyses revealed significant alterations in lipid metabolism components after SCI. Moreover, immunofluorescence staining and polarized light imaging demonstrated substantial BODIPY+ lipid droplet accumulation and persistent cholesterol crystal formation at the lesion site after SCI. Increased pu.1 expression was predominantly observed within macrophages/microglia at the lesion site after SCI. DB1976 treatment significantly mitigated lipid droplet accumulation and cholesterol crystal formation, reduced CD68+ macrophage/microglial infiltration and attenuated fibrotic scar formation. Moreover, DB1976 treatment promoted the expression of claudin-5 and zonula occludens-1 between vascular endothelial cells and enhanced GFAP+ glial connectivity after SCI. </p><p>Conclusions: Our study reveals a significant correlation between lipid metabolism disturbance post-SCI and transcription factor pu.1 upregulation, specifically in macrophages/microglia at the lesion site. Thus, targeted pu.1 modulation has the potential to yield promising results by substantially diminishing the deposition of lipid metabolism byproducts at the lesion site and fostering a milieu conducive to SCI repair.
